PDCare
L a s e r
FOR PATIENTS
SYMBYX CLINICIAN PROGRAM
PAGE | 02
About SYMBYX &
Light (PBM) Therapy
What We Do?
SYMBYX is an Australian medical technology company
developing light therapies to manage previously
intractable, chronic diseases and painful inflammatory
conditions. A key focus for SYMBYX is using light
therapy (photobiomodulation or PBM) to reduce
Parkinson’s disease symptoms. We treat primarily via
the gut microbiome because there is now a well-
known and researched linkage between the gut and
the brain (known as the Gut-Brain-Axis).
Light Therapy and How it Works?
PBM is not a new area of medicine. In fact, the 1903
Nobel Prize in medicine was won by a Danish doctor
for using ultraviolet blue and red light to treat
smallpox and TB scars. Today, there are over 4,000
peer-reviewed scientific studies reporting on light’s
safe, protective and restorative properties for a range
of health problems.
Applying an optimal dosage of light (which considers
wavelength, application time and intensity or
strength) is critical – application above or below this
dose will have diminished effect. SYMBYX lasers
deliver a specifically calibrated light energy doses
relying on proprietary, super-pulsing technology. This
allows for the delivery of optimal dosages without
thermal (heating) effect. Our lasers are also non-
invasive, painless to use and portable.
Unlocking the
healing power of
light
PAGE | 03
SYMBYX CLINICIAN PROGRAM
SYMBYX light therapy can
relieve Parkinson’s
symptoms
Why is Light Relevant to Parkinson's disease?
In Parkinson’s disease it is not only the loss of dopamine producing brain cells but also mitochondrial
dysfunction (a part of every living cell which produces the energy required for daily life) that causes both
movement symptoms and other non-motor symptoms — such as diminished balance, cognitive ability,
sense of smell, problems with sleeping, depression, and loss of motivation. Light therapy energises cell
mitochondria and can help with the loss of cellular energy common in Parkinson’s disease.
Most people don’t realise that their colon has the capacity to produce both dopamine and serotonin –
critical neurotransmitters required for healthy brain function. PBM to the gut reduces inflammation,
promotes the metabolism of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), which in turn influences the production of
more dopamine and serotonin. This process delivers therapeutic benefits to people with Parkinson’s.
People with Parkinson’s are reporting improvements in mobility, cognition, dynamic balance, sleep,
motivation and fine motor skills after using the Symbyx PDCare laser. BMC Neurology (July 2021) noted "no
adverse side effects" and that PBM was shown to be a “safe and potentially effective treatment for
Parkinson’s disease symptoms. Improvements were maintained for as long as treatment continued, for up
to one year in a neurodegenerative disease where decline is typically expected”
.
Our painless, easy-to-use SYMBYX
lasers are CE marked and ARTG listed.
SYMBYX CLINICIAN PROGRAM
PAGE | 04
PDCare 904 nm Laser
All SYMBYX devices are approved for home usage.
SYMBYX lasers are high-quality, European
manufactured for superior precision, increased
reliability, and consistency over time. It is
recommended that the diodes are re-calibrated
every 3-5 years for optimal performance. Lasers
significantly reduce treatment times versus simple
light emitting diodes (LEDs).
1. Laser aperture/Laser diodes
The laser emitting diodes are placed in a slight arch
to improve contact between the laser apertures and
the body in order to optimise penetration of light
into the tissue. There are two diodes.
2. Powder painted aluminum front
The powder coated aluminum front and the anti-
reflective coated lenses ensure long-term use and
allow cleaning without deterioration.
3. Feedback/ LED light indicator
A semi-transparent ring emits a green light
indicating that laser emission is activated. Feedback
is also given by visible and audible signals when
sufficient laser energy has been delivered and when
it is time to change the treatment point. This
feedback occurs every 60 seconds.
Laser emission cannot occur accidentally. The
operator must first turn on the device into stand-by
mode and also then lightly but firmly press the
device directly onto clean, dry skin to commence
transmission.
Each laser is delivered in a package that includes:
PDCare 904 nm Laser by SYMBYX
6 x AAA batteries
Instruction manual
Protective sleeve for device
4. Concave shape for better grip
The laser surface has a concave shape along the
length of the device, which provides a better grip, is
more comfortable to hold and reduces the risk of
dropping the device.
5. Screw for replacing batteries
The laser is internally powered by 6 AAA-batteries
and has a battery-life of approximately 3-4
treatment hours. Remember to switch it completely
off between uses. Rechargeable batteries may be
used.
6. Power on/off
Accessible button on the back to turn the laser on
and off out of stand-by mode.
PAGE | 05
SYMBYX CLINICIAN PROGRAM
Treatment Protocol
The PDCARE Laser is to be used to treat the neck and
abdomen.
Time to complete: 20 minutes
18 minutes on stomach 2 minutes on neck at base of the
skull.
Frequency: 3x per week
Turn the laser on with the button on the base (6) of the
device - you will hear 4 short beeps and see a flashing light
(3).
Press it onto the spot (2) to be treated with enough pressure
to turn it on. You will hear one beep.
Thereafter, the laser will beep every 1 minute. You should
hold it on the 9 spots marked on the abdomen for 2 full
beeps (2 minutes x 9 spots = 18 minutes total). Treat over
your bare abdomen in a rough grid pattern as shown in
the diagram. The laser needs to make direct contact
with the skin. The top 3 spots are just under the ribs and
the bottom 3 spots are just above the pelvis.
After completing the stomach routine, press the laser
against the neck at the base of the skull for 2 beeps (2
minutes). Only do this on days you use the laser. Each
complete laser session is therefore 20 minutes long. Turn off
the device using the button on the base (6) of the laser.
We encourage you to seek a follow up
appointment with your Clinician after a 30-
day trial for a review before making your
decision to keep or return the laser.
Also, if you any questions during the
trial period contact your clinician or
email SYMBYX on
clinicalsupport@symbyxbiome.com
SYMBYX CLINICIAN PROGRAM
PAGE | 06
PDCare Laser:
Clinician Supported Trial
Symptoms of Parkinson’s disease vary from
person to person and because of this,
treatments that work for one person may not
work the same way for another.
Understandably, this means deciding to invest
in a new treatment therapy can be a big
decision.
You can order your SYMBYX laser online
by following these steps:
https://symbyxbiome.com/ > Our products > add
PDCare 904nm Laser to cart > add discount code
(provided by your clinician) > fill out shipping
address > add billing details > finalise purchase
To help you make this decision, you can trial
the SYMBYX PDCare laser under the care of
your Clinician in their clinic before deciding
whether to buy your own. Your Clinician will
show you how to use the laser and will conduct
some assessments. These assessments, along
with the advice of your Clinician, will help you
decide whether continuing with the treatment
at home with your own laser is the best course
of action for you.
Enter your shipping details (device will be sent to
you) > finalise purchase.
Our clinical research shows that the the best
outcomes for people with Parkinson’s are
achieved when the PDCare laser is used three
times a week in accordance with the SYMBYX
protocol. For this reason, the therapy is ideally
self- administered in the comfort of your own
home.
If you decide to purchase, use the exclusive
code your clinician gives you so you qualify
for a 10% discount off our RRP.
Please reach out to us to learn more
Website: https://symbyxbiome.com
General enquiries: info@symbyxbiome.com
Clinical questions: clinicalsupport@symbyxbiome.com
