Plan of Attack- SmoothiesJ
If you are opting to switch to a dairy free diet here are some extra TIPS for you!
For non dairy sources just make sure it says 20% or more for Calcium ( ie Almond Milk, Oat
milk)
Vegetables high in Calcium for your smoothies if you are concerned about getting enough
Calcium
Bok Coy
Cucumber
Collard Greens
Kale
Swiss Chard
Spinach
Some of my Go-To Smoothies
Strawberry- Bok Choy-Kiwi
1 cup of bok choy(fresh,raw)
1 cup of kiwi
1 cup of frozen strawberries (preferably organic)
*optional 1 tbsp of Nutritional yeast (Nutritional yeast is dairy-free and gluten free. It is a useful
supplement for people with food allergies and sensitivities as well as for people on restricted
diets. Helps to protect against oxidative stress, lowers cholesterol and boost immunity).
I have been playing around with adding this in place of protein powder.
Water as desired or 1 cup of almond milk(unsweetened)
Kale-Blueberry
*Boost Brain power
*Rich in antioxidants
*Helps control blood sugar
½ banana
1/2 cup of chopped kale
½ frozen blueberries
A few pieces of cucumber(1/4 of a cucumber approx.)
½ teaspoon of cinnamon
1 cup of almond milk
1 tbsp of nutritional yeast (1tbsp contains 2 grams of protein)
1 tsp of Cocoa powder
Raspberry-Peach-Mango Smoothie Bowl
This healthy smoothie recipe is a gateway to the smoothie-bowl craze. Use whatever fruit, nuts
and seeds you like best to make it your own. Be sure to use frozen fruit in Step 1 to yield a
creamy, frosty base for the toppings.
Sadly, most of us get only about half the total daily fiber we need, and even less of the super-
beneficial fructans. But there's good news: upping your fiber intake can improve your gut
bacteria fast-sometimes in as little as five days, according to a study in the journal Nature.
This healthy smoothie recipe is a gateway to the smoothie-bowl craze. Use whatever fruit, nuts
and seeds you like best to make it your own. Be sure to use frozen fruit in Step 1 to yield a
creamy, frosty base for the toppings.
Ingredients
Ingredient Checklist
• 1 cup frozen mango chunks
• ¾ cup nonfat plain Greek yogurt or Dairy free yogurt of your choice
• ¼ cup reduced-fat milk
• 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
• ¼ ripe peach, sliced
• ⅓ cup raspberries
• 1 tablespoon sliced almonds, toasted if desired
• 1 tablespoon unsweetened coconut flakes, toasted if desired
• 1 teaspoon chai seeds
Directions
Instructions Checklist
• Step 1- Combine mango, yogurt, milk and vanilla in a blender. Puree until smooth.
• Step 2 Pour the smoothie into a bowl and top with peach slices, raspberries, almonds,
coconut and chia seeds to taste.
Our challenges don’t define us, our ACTIONS do.
Xo
Christine
