
Our challenges don’t define us. Our actions do. 
PLAN OF ATTACK • WORKSHEET #3 
PD Symptoms  
  PD Symptoms: Motor and Non-Motor  
This list is not meant to scare you for what’s to come because in all honesty you may never  experience some of these symptoms because everyone with Parkinson’s is different. This list is  ONLY to educate you so you are aware of what symptoms are associated to the disease vs ones  that aren’t. It will also be a great tool for you to see what symptoms are indeed due to  Parkinson’s and how you can be proactive about it. 
Main Symptoms  
Tremor Shaking of one body part or multiple body parts, typically more  pronounced on one side of the body 
Muscle Rigidity Stiffness in some areas or multiple areas of the body. Most prominent  in the thoracic/core region of the body 
Slowness 
(Bradykinesia) 
Slow movements especially during ‘off’ phase. BIG movements need  to be emphasized all throughout class as much as possible so students  continue to move BIG in their home outside of class. 
Postural Instability Poor posture which could lead to poor balance 
Secondary Symptoms 
Stooped Posture Consists of leaning forward therefore your centre of gravity will shift  and this can possibly increase your chance of falling. Back pain and  
overall body stiffness is often common but definitely treatable. 
Shuffling Gait Small, hesitant steps which can lead to shuffling gate. Walking as BIG (amplitude is key here) as possible can help retrain your brain to walk  
with a more normal gate pattern.
Our challenges don’t define us. Our actions do. 
Secondary Motor Symptoms 
Decreased Arm  Swing 
Lack of facial  expression 
One arm may swing slightly or not at all compared to your other arm 
Clients often have a masked expression because the stiffness can  often be in their face as well as the rest of their body. VOICE exercises  for the win here☺ will help improve this.  
Microphagia Very small handwriting, often one of the first signs of the disease 
Difficulty getting  out of bed and  turning over 
Stiffness is often worse in the morning so warm up and cool down  stretches are important. 
Secondary Non-Motor Symptoms  
Voice is Quiet &  Difficulty Speaking 
Painful Muscle  
cramps 
Poor sleeping  
patterns,  
hallucinations, vivid  dreams 
Depression &  
Anxiety 
70-90% of persons with PD will develop speech difficulties over the  course of the disease, sometimes speech can be the first symptom. 
Often in the feet but can present elsewhere in the body 
All of these symptoms are often seen with a PD diagnosis but can  exacerbate with medication change or being on a medication for a  prolonged period. SLEEP schedule a must here for optimal sleep.  
Some people with Parkinson’s isolate themselves from friends and  family and social activities. They tend to have increased anxiety which  can exacerbate their symptoms. They can become fearful and  overwhelmed quite easily. Working with your health care professional  to make sure your anxiety and depression are being addressed is key  here and there are many effective treatments and medications that  can work wonders. If you stay in a rut of depression or anxiety you will  be working against your body, possibly causing a negative effect to the  rest of your health. 
Cognitive Issues &  Dementia 
Our challenges don’t define us. Our actions do. 
Can be seen in PD population and exists on a continuum of severity;  prevalence can increase with the duration of the movement disorder.  EXERCISE can help to slow down progression and improve overall  cognitive health especially the sooner the better.  
Skin Problems Oily or Scaly skin which can lead to dry skin. I recommend non-skid  socks or wearing indoor shoes if needed when exercising. **Coconut  
oil is a great for dry skin and you can apply it generously to your feet  
and wear socks overnight to hold in moisture. 
Constipation Is very common among PD students. It’s important to speak with your  health care professionals to get your gut on track as your digestive  
health has proven to be a very important part of the PD puzzle. 
Low Blood Pressure Low blood pressure is quite common among people with PD. It can  either be a symptom related to PD or a side effect from the  
medication. There are many modifications to exercises that consists of  
going down and back up so make sure to be aware of them in your  
exercise class and don’t be afraid to ask for assistance if needed. It is  
very important to get comfortable with the ground so learning how to  
get down to the ground and back up should be a part of your exercise  
program.  
Loss of Smell A lost, or impaired, sense of smell is considered among the very earliest  warning signs of Parkinson’s Disease. It can sometimes occur as much as  several years prior to other symptoms developing and is medically  
referred to as anosmia.

